THE UNIVERSAL HUMAN TRUTH

 MANIFESTO OF THE FINAL HUMAN -ISM 2: DOCTRINE










#NOTICES:
#extremely unfinished
#written rather informally and non-fancily until we find a style of writing that suits this
#the books can be construed as a response to "regressionist" anprim and "effeminate" social justice, via the new "forwardist" techesc and "masculine" neo-neo-stoicism. There exists no rebuke to anprim so far, and social justice is declining in favor of neo-neo-stoicism (and alt-right). We will denounce valuing alt-right principles in-and-of-themselves (e.g. nationalism, racism, sexism), but will not hate them in-and-of-themselves either, unlike social justice (unless they are completely irrelevant).


#RULES:
#if there are non-jargon words or phrasing you find too obscure, replace them. This is supposed to be as easily told as possible, even at the expense of some accuracy and nuance. This book should be useable for a layman
#format: chapter - heading - paragraph
#chapters are a scope of reality (e.g. history, society, individuals)
#passages have an opening verse that explains it directly, and then gives a discrete amount of story-verses underneath as examples, answers to common questions, and  pitfalls






#a lot of things need to be right to make the crossroads, so we'll have to change a lot of things sort of


#let us not use vague arbitrary empty language like "out with the old in with the new"


#we can’t merely follow the philosophies of old, because the old ones don’t have the critical thought, universality, and etc. to deal with the crossroads


#soccultprog is a lie, because not much can be made better, except when tech changes the meta


#could make a thing that compares every "philosophy"/religion in how they try to address the issue of death and suffering? (and meaning in general). to show how this is sort of objective if you reduce every religion we have to their essence


#the four horsemen don't include natural disasters because of temperate climate


#specify we don't listen to olds from right logic, but from right praxis and our need to be humble


#somewhere about addiction?


#somewhere about conforming to the “right” things (e.g. discipline not to something good isn’t “free”, sort of). all of its power comes from emotions, and for men at least, pride (a great source of “willpower”), this can’t simply do


#we might want to separate between the “new humanism” (call it just (true) “humanism”?) and the “new enlightenment” (just called “illumination”?). The first is a common society-wide practice, while the latter is to truly understand the world and oneself for optimization.


#other religions aren't wrong necessarily (they are all abstract versions of the truth made for human use), but none of them account for technological development, so they are all outdated


#the "reliigon" or kdeology or whatever wjich believes themslef to be right  will spread the word and be arrogant until they are proven wrong, after which they will use argumentation methods and mental gymnasyics


#the forbfruit gave us the ability to act with.ethical consideration, and thereby cursed us to have to live morally - is an abstraction from the physcial reality of techdev and etc., but might bw worth talking about?


#don't phrase it as immort, but umawareness of desth? (which is pract immort)


#The issue with established religions is that they promise a different ending than we logically have found. That is why we must emphasize we don't care what the end will actually be, just that this is what would naturally happen if there is no deus ex machina. #None of it would go against nature because it is a "natural" progression. Neither against god, as we would never breach the laws of the universe. #We do not say god does not exist (that would be bad science). We simply assume we cannot solely depend on him, whether he exists or not.


#something explicitly addressing how the existence of providence is dubious


#the problem of "acceleration" and "return", is that we assume we know where we're going. Which we don't, so let's just let progress happen as it does, and make it as livable as possible.


#"the human heritage"




#q: what if people don't want to listen to the truth? a: that doesn't mean you should change the truth, but present it better (even a bit dishonestly so). And if they still don't want to listen, it means they can't be stopped from dying.






#don't have any footnotes, have stories instead


#if you have problem with how this is written, because it is not "scientific" enough, read the first book and just go extrapolate the obvious derivatives from its contents (that are written here). While the first book features little to no empiricism, it is basically a mathematical proof, and you don't need empirical evidence (aside from the axioms) for those


#make every derivation logical
#reread lukbook to inc stuff
#regularize characters?
#find the correct style to write in
#talk about all topics, like art
#explain how occams razor puts stupidity over malice. since humans aren't as smart as they'd like to think


#there isn't really a clear "evil" here, only "degeneracy"/"impurity"/"insults to the predecessors"
	{What is good and what is evil? We already know what it is, but the slur of chaos makes it difficult to know what will be good or bad beyond intentions. It is therefore our duty as sapient creatures to understand the consequences of our actions, and thereby tell good from evil. To assume one knows it al}


	{Mismanagement is inevitable. And from a mismanaged realm, comes need. With need, loyalties strengthen. And from loyalties, tribes. And then the tribes squabble over what is left, until the best organized tribe defeats the others. From then comes prosperity. And from prosperity, they grow soft. And soft people mismanage.}


	{The cure to disease is poison. The keeper of peace is arms. Freedom is brought by force and stubbornness. And so human good is brought by human strife.}


	{A man once made a telescope so powerful, he could see the realm beyond the universe. He looked into it, but the image was Blurry. So he strained his eyes until he saw rivers and intricate systems of canals, surely built by a kind more advanced than his own. He saw that these canals wrapped around a spherical object, concentrated around a colored circle. When he later met Providence, he asked about the canals. To which, Providence slotted him with the eye of Providence, and asked him to look into the telescope once more.}


	{A murderer harvesting in an endless field was retrieved by Providence, and brought to a garden. Those in the garden protested: "How should an unscrupulous man like him walk among us? Should he not be burning forever?". Providence replied: "Reckoning cannot be eternal for finite mistakes. And now that he has made up for them, he is not to be punished anymore. If you were to be punished for being a bad person rather than your bad deeds, everyone would be burning for eternity. Though, of course, there are no daggers in here.".}


	{One day, the river flooded. The water kept increasing, and wiped away the many cities built on the riverbed. In response, the tribes in the rivervalley built dams and dykes in their regions of the river to block the flow. But when the first dam broke to overflow, the gathered water would break the next until all were broken and the riverlands flooded again. The tribes thus convened, and agreed to work together. They gathered in designated regions to dig out canals. And after arduous years of work, the river flood was so dispersed, the riverbeds were available again. And no more could the tribes squabble again, or risk their canals failing.}


	{A man once had ten cows. He was provided plenty for by them, and lived an easy life. One day however, while he was away felling trees for the winter, a scrawner approached the cows. The scrawner saw the cows were unprotected, and thought if he only took one, the owner would not come after him. Surely enough, when the man returned, he thought he could still make so with only nine cows, and so bothered not to look for the thief. Later, when word got out of the man's timidness, more people arrived, and they also stole his cows. Thus, the only way of protecting his cows, would have been to enshrine a stubborn and vengeful reputation.}


	{A family once lived in a little village. One day, bandits came in and kidnapped their children. The bandits then told the family, that they would only return their children if they agreed to join them. The family, not knowing of dignity, agreed. Now, the bandits were more, and would keep growing.}


	{The realm of animals knows not the plights of society, but knows intimately the plights of emotion. In that kingdom, there is: the ignorant pig, anxious sheep, fearful mouse, prideful lion, stubborn buck, spiteful snake, attached cock,
	In the realm of humans, there is: the playful kid, the confident boy, the insecure hero, the newlywed were, the dutiful father, the senile old man, the wise elder, the esoteric mystic. The compassionate mother, the.}


	{One day, a rich man died. After entering the afterlife, he noticed his stomach grumbled, but found nothing to eat. So he called on Providence, asking what he was supposed to eat. When Providence heard the man needed provisions, the man was sent back to the mortal realm, and told to take with him food for his stay in the afterlife. The man had his former servants load food on carts, and carted them to the afterlife. On their way, they stumbled upon a bunch of beggars asking to have some of the food. The man refused them, but one of the carts dropped a piece of bread in the mud, so he let them have it. After the caravan had made its way into the afterlife, the man was eager to eat again. He then looked into his caravan, but saw only a muddy piece of bread there.}


#we need stories about how to manage markets, commerce, and material desires and etc., as we need to keep every response we made to every technological development. It is sort of like the abrahamic holy texts, that build on the previous ones.
	{A beggar once looked at the rich men. He saw they did not give to beggars. The beggar relented, and said that if he were rich, he would be more charitable with his money. And so heaskes Providence for a few coins to start from. Providence then gave him a pouch. The pouch had endless coins of stone in them, which would turn golden when the beggar would throw it in the river and never look back at it.


	{There was once a shepherd with a plot of land. When he grazed his herd in his land, he had to be careful not to overgraze, or else the soil would be less next year. But he wanted fatter sheep, so he turned to his neighbor's plot, and grazed there instead. The neighbor, noticing his plot was exhausted earlier than expected, went with his herd and grazed in another neighbor's plot. This kept continuing until every plot was overgrazed, and grass was no more.}


	{There was once an elder with a dancing mask. He was afraid it would be stolen, and so kept it hidden, only telling his close family about it. On the harvest spirit's day, the elder sat at home with nothing to do, so he went to check on the mask, and saw it was missing. He was perturbed, and so went outside to find the thief. He followed the sounds, and found his grandson using it to dance with the village. Children were laughing, the fires were warm, and the harvest spirit surely would be pleased, the elder realized. So he went back home. Later, when his grandson returned, the elder asked him about the dancing mask. The grandson apologized for taking it, and reached it over to him. But the elder declined, and replied to keep using it, for it provided no benefits stashed away gathering dust.}


	{A group of young men once heard of a wise woman deep in the forest. They went to search for her, and found her. They then asked her to make them wise like she was. She spoke: "There is nothing I can teach you.". The young men were puzzled. The woman continued: "I can only teach, you what you do not already know. And I am afraid you have already shown your curiosity, so there is nothing more to teach you if you want to be wise.".}


	{One day, a boy steps on an ant. He feels remorseful, and begins to cry over the dead ant. A passing elder tells him not to cry, for even though the boy could control his steps, he cannot always know where he will step, and cannot avoid stepping on a few ants throughout his lifetime.


	{Animals are cruel, logic is cruel, idk. etc.


	{There were once a few people trapped in a cave. There was little in the cave, and they ran out of moss to eat. They sat there starving, when one of the sick perished. Because there was nothing to eat, they decided to eat their fallen friend. They cut off his face, as they could not bear to look at him as they went, and cut his body into pieces that would least resemble a human. Then when that ran out, and they needed to eat again, the oldest volunteered to be eaten. This continued ubtil they had dug themselves out, and they could leave. But before leaving, they were careful to bring the remains of their fallen friends to observe funeral rites in memory of them. And now they thought to themselves, how lucky they were to not have to eat flesh anymore.}


#do not waste sentimental energy


	{Once when Providence looked, humans were worshipping tools. Out of compassion, Providence became upset, but like a good parent, needed not act out the discontent, for humans had best learn on their own. Humans worshipped the axe, and used it to till their fields. They then starved. And when they worshipped the hoe instead, they froze during the winter. 
	Later, humans regretted their favoring of tools over Providence and humanity, and so turned to Providence to solve their matters. They sang prayers to Providence so that their work would be done for them. Yet Providence had made it clear earlier their fates were in their own hands, and told so them not to be surprised when nothing would come of this.
	Only then did they realize that tools were no force of providence, and that Providence for humanity was no tool. So they turned their spirits to Providence, and their efforts to work.}


	{One day, a monkey came back from a sacred garden with a bag of divine fruits. He threw it to his pig friend. The pig jumped and swallowed it. "How did it taste?", the monkey asked. "I don't know.", the pig replied. So the monkey threw another, and the pig swallowed that one too. The monkey then went on, and thought of how pitiful the pig's life must be, not knowing of any pleasures. Yet the pig lived blissfully unaware, and suffered no craving.}


	{One day, a man and a grasshopper were arguing about how many seasons there were. The man insisted there were four seasons, but the grasshopper insisted there were only three. Then, a mystic came by. The conversers asked the mystic to settle it. The mystic then said there were only three seasons, and the grasshopper jumped off gleefully. The man then asked the mystic why he would say that, and the mystic told him grasshoppers only live three seasons, and so cannot know any better. Unlike with human to human, whose differences would be negligible. So they may reach the same degree of truth.}


	{moving from fear to shame/guilt


	{There was once a young forester who had been given a plot of land by his father. The first day, he cut trees tirelessly, until he ached all over, and was bedridden. To which his father said: "Working twice as long is easier than working twice as hard.". So when the hero came back to himself, cut the trees every day. Until he noticed one day that his pace had slowed down, and so he asked his father, whom told him that: "The lumberjack who never sharpens his axe, loses his edge.". The hero then continued cutting, faster than ever, so his father warned him: "Those rob nature, rob themselves. Do not harvest more than is provided.".
	The second year, the hero noticed there were few trees to cut, and so he consulted his father once more, whom told him: "Those who only reap and never sow, will not eat forever.". The hero then protested that it would take too long for the seeds to grow to notice, to which the father replied: "The best time to plant a tree was years ago. The second best is today.". So the hero threw acorns all over without much care for the type of soil. To which his father said: "Some soils grow trees, others grass, and others crops. Let the sheep graze this plot instead of the oak.". planted too many, and his father said: "Those who destroy their soil, destroy themselves.".
	The third year, the hero saw the saplings sprout, and began cutting them. To which his father said: "Let them grow before harvest.". The hero then told him he did not have many more acorns left. His father replied: "Give it time, for ten thousand forests may come from a single acorn.".
	And for years the young forester continued his work, but experienced no troubles. So one day out of habit, he went to his father regardless and asked about it. His father went to his plot, and surveyed the land. When he came back, he said: "You have done well my son. Society grows great when old men plant trees they will not sit in the shades of. And it seems this old man has done his. Now may you cast your acorns for the next step of your journey.". The father paused. He continued: "And this old man is gone, and all this land yours, know that you are not inheriting the land, but borrowing it from your children.".}


	{humans had many idols, and killed each other over them


	{it is difficult to transcend stuff like the need for war and so on


	{One day a man had died and met Providence. Now he was to be judged. The man explained to Providence how he had said only words to please Providence in his lifetime, and had made sure never to upend any of Providence's teachings. Providence replied: "I know. You have done everything in your power to appear good. Yet true good comes


	{One day, a young man had been killed by a mob and met Providence. The hero explained how the mob had accused him of being driven by base inclinations after he had lost his temper. He continued explaining how the mob was right, and that his ill nature would be a threat to the world. Providence responded: "If every man was to be judged for what is within him, then everyone would burn. We judge you not by your nature, but by your actions in spite of it. And neither can one's character be judged from what is a mere indication. We must assume innocence until guilt is certain. And so no verdict can be made. You shall be sent back.".}


	{There was once a jungle made out of concrete, surrounded by barren wastes. There, one was given all provisions by a force of providence. The force gave only provisions to those who did not offend it, and gave more to those it favored. As such, the people of the jungle made sure to appease the force all they could. They began dressing in many clothes, shaving their bodyhair, bathing 3 times a day, thoughtlessly subscribing to everything the force spoke, and maintaining constant anxieties that the force would leave them behind. Some however, did not like it, and wanted to leave, but had nowhere to go. When the force caught wind of it, it had the quitters sent to be retold why they should live the way the force desired.
	The people of the jungle eventually forgot the force existed at all, and thought of its devices as their own. Now, even those outside of the jungle had to subscribe to the same thoughts as within, or risk the junglers' wrath. The children of the wastes were sent to the jungle to be taught to follow the force. And the same restrictions that made sense in the jungle were applied to the wastes as well.


	(#why anarchism and etc. is not worth to try out




	{A daughter once confided in her parents: "To live brings me no joy. I am locked in this hideous prison of flesh, forced to spend my every moment as a slave to society, while fed the lies of happiness from the pleasures I am sanctioned, left here to rot until I perish into oblivion. Why should I keep living today?". The parents were speechless – While they certainly had their discontentments, they always held the will to keep living.
	The parents took the daughter to a mystic for consultation. After explaining the situation, the mystic spoke: "There is no discontent that may outweigh the fortitude of a purpose. And do not lie to me, if you truly had no purpose, you would have left us earlier.".
	#meaninglessness stuff idk #if one has purpose but is useless or insignificant towards it? #categorical imperative here?
	The mystic continued: "Look at the ground beneath us. Today we stand on Earth, and not in Heaven. All would have desired conditions to be different, but today we may only make do with what we have.".}




	{A woman once could look into the future. #child sick, compassion vs. “logic”
When the ground trembled, she found a flood was coming. She went to the stern man in charge of the camp, and told them: “The ground has shaken, so a flood is coming. We must shelter in a cave!”. But the man replied: “What has the ground to do with the ocean? You have only your feelings to speak from, so stop this incessant drama.”. Thus, the camp next migrated into an open plain. Soon however, a flood hit the camp, and half of the camp perished, including two children of the man, and two children of the woman. #intuition vs. sensing, that is
#they learn to listen to her? idk }






#we need to systemize the archetype theory a bit more…
#like adding “the shadow”, maybe the animus and anima too?


#many people know the abstracted truth via clear goods and evil, so tell them to unabstract to understand they follow only simplifications, and that neohum is correct, or w/e


#need to make book 1 be sort of more explicit in how to derive methodology (it is supposed to be usable alone too)


#a major part of this is simply getting a better way of living urbanly than anxst culture


#Society sucks and humanity is encountering the greatest challenge it ever will. That is why we must tell to unify everyone, fix society, and make this forced transition to live another day (forever) #define very clearly what the group is about and etc. he


#write somewhere this uses “””math””” as proof (the first book), and thereby is “””scientific”””, which would make it legitimate to modern day “science believers”, as opposed to “source: it was revealed to me in a dream”, which would have worked back in the day


#story of the skies being blot today, so that we cannot reach our destiny into the stars. it is both literal (kessler syndrome) and metaphorical for society being stupid for now






1. Humanist view of reality.
.
#caution this is not supposed to present a new truth, but (mostly) (de)abstract some of the abstract stories fundamental to humans across history? #you're supposed to already know everything here from intuition
#like agriculture and iron-work + markets brought new belief-systems which completely reshaped societies' characters, the new technological revolution should the same (and it reaches everywhere even by only being in one place due to the nature of competing and stuff) (think the iron-age invasions) #we add this to book 2, and use it to explain the precedent for new belief-systems and explain this to be the last in the line of many old belief-systems






2. Humanist view of the past.
.

#technically, that story isn’t wrong, but it is not meant to be accurate. include somewhere


#story is not meant to be taken literally, much like how we are supposed to interpret other religious texts


#graphic: human history interpretation?








3. Humanist view of the ideas.
.

#is emotional FOREMOST (and therefore need to make sure what they do is actually good for society, and not just to assuage their guilt or w/e)
#NATURALLY want to survive (humanism both means preservation of yourself and the species)
#add descriptions of the principles


#high dopaminic dualistic vigor vs. low dopaminic pantheistic asceticism?
#defining the movement and what addresses what that is called for
#divided into: the idea, the party/monasteries, the adherents, the representatives


#we take a neutral stance to fate, as it is best to believe one has free will, but also to know what is possible and not (to not waste energy)


#science is a series of paradigm shifts and not linear progress?


#we solve all grander philosophical questions in 3, and then the smaller ones (e.g. how to act as a human) in 4?
#merge 3 and 4 to some extent indeed. make about rationality vs principle, detachment (in a method/tool sense) vs vigor, fate vs action, coldness vs warmth, detachment (in a goal/end sense) vs religion (humanism), simplicity vs complexity?…
	{There once was a frog in a well. He lived #gets replaced by the othwr frog that livea next to the lake whom has more children




4. Humanist view of individuals.
.
Duty. #it is your duty as a citizen of society to make sure society will be good
	{A boy was caught eating honey by his young parents. Out of anger, the father said: "For this, you shall have no more honey for the next two celebrations!". Out of compassion, the mother protested: "Put off the cruelty, he is still but a child!". Then, the matriarch walks in and from her gray hair, says: "The honey shall be spared from him the next celebration only. And once more in addition for each slight ever after. For it is not human to be perfect, but our duty to become responsible for our actions as sober adults. Else, we cannot claim to know better than the hand of nature, nor claim the people know best.".}
	{Most people can only be dutiful.


Endeavor. #some people will try to be the best they can, and we should encourage them #a man who doesn't go out of his way, is unmarriagable
	{#koryos?}
	{One day, the courtiers had come back to the proud young king, informing him of his desired's message: "I cast not my eye for a king of mere ten villages, but will consider the king of a thousand.". The courtiers were quick to seek favor by calling this an insult to the king, and praising what little else he had done. The king however, spoke: "She is right. My only feat known to the world was falling out of my mother's womb. Yet I know my capability, so the world shall no longer remain ignorant.". The king did then not cut his hair, nor properly groom, so that no other woman would approach him. Then, when the news reached the king's desired of the young king dedication and conquest spree, she went on a boat to the king's foreseeable final destination. When they both reached there, they met and married.}
#pride and don’t cut hair (care about one’s appearance until/if one gets married), though we’d make this about the pubertal to early adulthood instead of life}
	{The pensive and energetic child both endeavored. The pensive child became a mystic, and gained insight and gave teachings. The energetic child became a warrior, and slayed a monster and formed a family. If not for the mystic, the warrior would not have gotten his awareness enchanted to see the monster. And if not for the warrior, the mystic would have been killed by the monster. The paths of spirit and vigor lead to the same destination – That being the glory of humankind.}
	{There was once a salt doll that wanted to know the ocean. But when she ventured into it, she dissolved and became one with it.}


Fear the endtimes only. Fear is an animal emotion meant to guard one from death. For animals working in groups, this fear extends beyond physical dangers, but also to social anxiety from fear of being disenfranchised. For us today in a society, caring too much for one's own life means everyone will perish. And thus, there is no good fear except of the dangers which's fate we share. Like the crossroads.
	{A tribesman once feared being left behind. It was only natural: If one was not good for the tribe, why should they keep you onboard? But instead of having rules on how to be kept in, the tribe thought to rely merely on intuition. That brought forth the worst of evils. Then, no one was left behind, but everyone dream to be.} #w
	{One day, a boy learnt of something urgent that others knew not of. He had now either to tell them or stay quiet. #people should never be more than 5 steps behind the truth


Rationality and detachment. #master one's emotions, and enslave oneself to guilt and truth rather than dumb stuff #those who are the opposite, animal and irrational, should be shunned (unlike nowadays, which only looks at specific weird abstractions) #this is also what people should look for when making friends, as relations are stablest when logical
	{A son asked a mystic: "How do you keep to the mountains?". The mystic replied: "I have forgotten the world outside, and long not for what I do not know.". The son replied: "Then how shall I, a family-man, be free from delusion?". The mystic replied: "You can not. Take instead a twelfth of the year, and abstain from worldly attachments. It shall purge your body of ill energies, and reanchor you to the truth.". The son replied: "And what if it unfolds not as planned?". The mystic replied: "Then you will know your condition.".}
	{#There are infinitely many reasons, but only a few relevant / decisively important ones #everything can be rationalized, but the truth remains one and the same #be vary of sham-rationality
	{#be wary of people who only occasionally detach #it is about total amount, not just occasions
	{One day, a boy wanted the discipline and willpower to overcome everything, and act in complete rationality. He thus set out to detach himself from all emotion. On this journey, while meditating, he had the realization that this would in the end, either turn him into a vegetable, or a liar. He realized in being human, he would always be subservient to a force. So like a serf could choose his lord, he decided to choose his master as well. He considered: Anger and fear would be too short-sighted. Shame would only follow and not think. Disgust and melancholy would ignore the bigger picture. And joys would put personal desires first, which are often ugly. It was only rationality that would drive him well. But it was no emotion in and of itself, and so he had to turn his shame inwards, into guilt to reach it.}
	{#pride and guilt can make one delusional, so explain how especially the first one is a simplification for people}
	{A young man wanted to free himself from attachments. So he went to the mountains, and dwelt there. He detached from material desires first. Then from his hobbies. Then his appetite. Then his family and friends. Then his emotions. And when he came out of the mountains, he wore only his skin over his ribs, and but watched as the world evolved around him. He had given up his body, and detached from humankind.}
	{#story of the too "vigorous" man}
	{The elder spoke: "In each person, there are many animals. It is up to you which one is fed. And it is the biggest one that takes you forwards.".}
	{A young man was born as a prince and wanted to br happy. He had everything. He had eaten every food. Had in his closets every clothing. Had servants for every chore. And he had the most beautiful woman as his wife. But he did not feel content. Yet, he was unable to name anything more he could lack. He thought that maybe he lacked the absence of gratification. And so he left his lavish life behind, and entered a cave. There, he would live with nothing. After adjusting to it, he realized he was no more or less content. Thus, he found that the key to happiness was not in what one had, but in a peace of mind.}
	{#choosing your master (your addiction)




#path to wisdom? think more than you read, etc.


Humanness. #regretably, you have to have friends and lead a happy life to work effectively…
	{There once was an orphan boy who desired to belong. Yet, no matter how hard he yearned, he still lacked something others had, and neither had the extraordinary talent to make up for it. So he knew no life but to wander around the sprawls. There, on one cold night, he wondered what it was like to be embraced by the heat of family, and he lit a fire. While warming himself, he looked up, and saw smoke-trails from every other crook and cranny. He thought of how long it would take for one of the fires to spread.}
	{A human either needs love or spirit. A monk requires a lifetime to transcend the need for love. And even then can easily fail. 
	{A mother and a father tried to raise their only child. The father always pushed the child to do better, while the mother tried to keep the child away from harm. The mother was scared, and the father prideful, and they could not come to an agreement. So they called in the gray-haired matriarch. She said: "A child who is forever treated like one, does not grow up, yet still having lost his impunity.". The mother protested in fear, to which the matriarch responded: "Being an adult entails risk. And to the adult, the misfortunes of life cannot always be avoided. So, instead of being anxious over what you have, obtain more so the loss would be smaller.".}
	{#hygiene and being palatable (metaphorically, ofc.)


Effectiveness. 
#invest effort per importance #including relevance / time pressure
	{#you'd still want some variability however, but society as a whole should want to follow this
#expect impact per effort #i.e. return per investment #it should at minimum, but not need to necessarily be so, as it is often difficult to tell how the grander workings of something are, so just follow the principles if you don't expect proportionate returns short-term
	{#story about an investor?
	{All the lake's fish had washed up to land. A boy saw them, and began throwing them back into the lake. An old man then approached the boy and said: "Why are you doing that? We will never need to fish again!". The boy replied: "You don't, yes.". The boy continued throwing. The old man then asked: "Why throw? You will never get them all back anyways.". The boy replied: "The man who fell on the floor lifts himself up. The man who fell through the mud needs only a helping hand.". The old man then asked: "How can you be sure this will help?". The boy replied: "I am not putting each drop back in the ocean. I am lighting sparks on bundles.".} #human strength is in utilizing potential to be effectual


#all shortterm gains must be used to build longterm things, or else you dum dum die. this is with eg cutting corners






#meritocracy vs shame-safety-ish


#to silently judge is a sin


#the main problem of the 21st century is navigating the "infostream", where you can't possibly know everything in-depth, and can't rely on traditions. Which is why neohum will try to tell useful stories and condense things, like into a book that explains how to live well accustomed to technology and so on (unlike old books, which only account for their time or are timeless, and thereby not always directly useful)


#a layperson only needs to worry about upholding their duties, a monk w/e, but an endeavorer or adherent needs to worry about impact
#do not be dumb
#be friendly to everyone outwardly (not doing so shows either poor discipline, or not being sympathetic to other people)
#but don’t waste peoples’ time


#don’t go into too much detail/specifics, this is at most examples?
#cool rituals
#dresscode: plain and symbolless. for occasions, wear black in unsunny regions and white in sunny regions. for casual, wear gray
#tyrants, organizers, sortitioning, departments, etc.
#do not refer to private people
#organizers rotated in are given nicknames to semi-anonymize them?
#the neohum’s “utilized iot”?




#story about how you cannot artificially make something a truth? (unlike hos sj views us as tabula rasas)


The humility vs. collective truth-belief problem. If you know the truth, but no one else does, should you try very hard (as to potentially compromise yourself or the current order) to spread it? "information dilemma", "disclosure dilemma"


To avoid that problem, we simply make sure people are on their tippity-toes to always be at most 5 steps behind a potential revelation.


5. Humanist view of interpersonal interactions.
.
#about culture, esp the human heritage?
#how to interact with each other and etc. the previous one is about individual pursuits irrespective of who is around
1 jehw. ejje




	{There was once a vicious man. He was born a princeling, and used his powers for his own pleasure. He organized thugs to enforce his wishes, and … But one day, the people had enough, and a crowd gathered. They put the princeling into stocks. The crowd then had a dispute. They discussed how best to maximize the princeling's suffering before he died. Until a mystic came in, and spoke: "If you on Earth judge him, his evil will be made up for, and his divine reckoning be undone.". The crowd went silent. The mystic continued: "His misdeeds on Earth remain, and all we may do is stop any more. When he passes on, Providence shall serve true justice.". While the crowd was distracted, the princeling pushed his stocks, and tilted a torch. It fell on him. The fire burnt his face burnt off, along with his stocks. He then ran off. The crowd turned to chase after him, but the mystic stopped them and said: "Our job is done. He can no longer be recognized. All harm he may do now is living on in your minds.".}






6. Humanist view of largescale interpersonal interactions.
.
#an overview of everything should look in tandem


#the more decentralized/democratic the less we are prone to individual errors (although we are prone to anxiety-based groupthink, so that must be addressed)
#though when you have democracy, you must also have that every individual is responsible for their actions. Where if one is not, then how can you trust them to decide their future?


1 The thought. The fundamental idea behind this is immutable and inalterable.
	{A young man looks at an old code, and says: "This is incomprehensible now, should I not update it?".
2 The movement. It happens today, that a movement of people to solve the human fate has arrived. These are the ones adhering to the thought out of logic, and those supporting it out of trust.
3 The directive. A group cannot merely act through conception alone, and a central directive must exist to coordinate and accumulate its efforts.
	{#people inside of the directive must have logical faith instead of mere trust, while that luxury can be afforded to people outside the group
4 The representative groups. #
	{There was once an upstanding brother, and his uncaring uncle. #story of using names
5 The institutions. # e.g. gov or school
6 The loyalties. It is in human nature to form networks of loyalties. There, one can expect the support of the network's constituents, and id also expected to give support in turn. Though these networks are often necessary, bringing numerous benefits, they can also consume society's ability to act outside of them. Thus, it is important to balance their role.
	{#a father needs to provide for his children, so he turns to dishonorable methods
	{#no one wants to fight in war, but it cannot always be avoided
	{#fulfill your loyalties and keep trust, or else no one will believe or help you anymore
7 The spectrum of humans. People exist in different ways. Let us not ignore this fact, but not delude ourselves with it either. #these aren't "groups" though?
	{#the fewest of people are truly ugly, and people have genetic differences like weightgain and so on
	{One day, a young man was bitter. "How is #gender "envy"
	{#racism and equivalents are bad, so let us simply try to not care about race and etc.
	{
8 The individuals. #


MOVEMENT DIRECTIVE: #the movement and organizations exist to represent the truth, not vica versa #it is central to rely on the message
1 wjwhhw. kytg
#movement and party
#obviously the adherents would strive to do everything which is "good culture", split party+movement from culture?
#if something is not in line with "the truth" (the main tenets) (e.g. doesn't serve humanity, makes things unnecessarily complicated), then ignore it and petition to change it if you bother
#consensus decisions-making
#bar for joining should be wikipedia-level low, allowing everyone but trolls. But they need to pass a “trial period” of sorts, where at the end they need to be accepted in by consensus on an anonymous basis, or something


#justification for power in the memberbase?


#people eligible for big roles should need to cut all ties with family (e.g. produce no offspring), because family is an arbitrary influence, and leads one to loyalties, and thereby uncollective-oriented decisions (e.g. commodus)




THE POPULATION: #what people physically do
1 whwj. jhgv
#3-10% to become "advanced users" (more than 3% is semi-baseless however)
#3, 17, 60 rule
#the “experts council”


THE RULE: #how we manage the “institutions”
#information-based society? (a soc optimized for dataism, utilizing stuff like freedom of information and a universal internet-of-things)
#treat everything as an investment, never moralize anything. Progress and the crossroads are the ultimate investment. (By extension this will create as good a healthcare as can be afforded, so the industry will focus on making viable medicine rather than milking people.)








7. Humanist view of the future.
.
#what per transition
#and how to salvage our fates
#like how we will deal gain power and so on


#no death penalty, cuz it scares hermits. also allow everypne into paradise in the end, as all may be forgiven sort of

#this book is intended for the "intellectuals", who then communicate it via stories to the "stakeholders", who will then get the rest of society to conform. Here, there are the "elites"; those who can mobilize the population (in some sense)
#this will probably involve a power-struggle between the old managerial-technocratic, government, and business-magnate elites versus the "influencer" elite (e.g. jordan peterson) and general aspirants (consisting of charismatic talented somewhat "respected" people (who are a coinflip between evil and good)). The young male demographic, who feel undercut by the old elites, will then align with the new ones. Along with ruralites and small business-owners, who are disadvantaged by the old regime. The old regime will champion "feminine" decadent-like thought, while the aspirants will champion "masculine" stoic-like thought. Which should there be a civil war or military coup, would favor the more masculine. And the petty technical elite ("stem"-workers, like engineers, programmers, and climate-scientists), who have different preferences, and are so more inclined to the "masculine" side.

A PRODUCT OF ITS TIME: #who controls and wants what?
1 dvdjehh . hkvv #mention the use of the internet to spread? (which goes naturally with the "internet figure" elite #in the intelligence economy, it's quality over quantity#so specialize, we need to make highly productive "specialists"
 #how will the system break down and call for neohum?


WHAT PER TRANSITION: #we will do transition, and as things changes, what changes?


PARADISE?: #solving the “end-state question”
	{In the cosmos, there were uncountably many spheres. One day, a spur was sent, hitting one of them, propelling it. Like many balls on a table, the many spheres would then collide with each other. No one could predict how they would go. These collisions would generate the illusion of the world as we know it, with structures like planets and animals. And the day the spheres either spread too far apart, or lose their impulse to move, is when the collisions stop, and the illusion of the world will cease.}


The fate of the universe. #is us, for we are the center, given our consciousness, unless we find aliens of course
	{The father pointed into the sky: "Do you see the stars in the sky, my son? Those are our destiny.". The father then recounted the planets and clouds of dust throughout the cosmos. He then said: "So while we may be insignificant to the cosmos today, a mere fluke in the bigger picture. In the end, we shall be its master. That is what our sapience will do".}








#so this is the sharia. now we need a third book, fiqh? that would be our direct interpretation of this "universal truth" on how to operate everything?




#where write principles? idk
#visible actioned sins of humility:
- overcomplication: a system / process / code is very complex, making it impossible to work with unless one is privileged, and also makes it fragile. Also assumes one engineered it perfectly without making faults along the way, which is delusional of a human to think.
- exceptions: breaking routine and granting special treatments either devolves into laziness or nepotism.
- improper incentives: an incentive structure that rewards laziness and evil more than diligence and good will naturally make society bad.
- unsustainability: living on a temporary basis means nothing.
- overburdening: too much at once will exhaust one faster.
- trust: trusting rather than critically thinking (with exceptions becomes skepsis without exceptions, as science is the ultimate act of humility).


#visible actioned sins of truegood:
- moralism: good for good rather than logic.
