	{The truth is only practical. A man once proclaimed he had solved all questions there were. Providence heard of this, and visited him. Providence then gave him his eye. The man saw through it, and was blown away by the indescribable things he saw. Up to now, he had only sat behind the fires in a cave seeing shadows. He could not comprehend what he saw. Instead, he now knew that he knew nothing. And so the search for the truth had always to be for utility in the end, as it is not human to know the unabridged truth.}

    	{The boy asked: "If the human goal is to conquer mortality, then why are we endowed with misleading emotions?". His father replied: "The mind must work through emotions, and it is the job of your sapience to find which balance of them is correct. They are not goals in-and-of-themselves, and those who mistake them as such will only find themselves broken on a treadmill.". He continued: "They were made to guide you towards the human goal, but only when followed with sapient thought. So do not pursue pleasure for its own sake, and happiness will come to you. Do not rave over grievances, and you will have the clarity to solve them. Do not cry longer than three months, and you will have the wit to end the story well. And be temperate with the rest as well, and the human goal naturally comes to you.".}
		//we may only perceive the world through emotions

		

	{One time, some humans decided there was no one truth.}

A son went and asked who Providence was. The shaman said it was the ancestor spirits. The mystic said it was a force that resonated in everything. The preacher said it was a god in heaven. The medicine-man said it would be the strongest spirit. And the priest said it was a series of gods. The son left confused, and went to his father. His father said Providence is whatever keeps one resolute.


	{#there is no objective truth, and we should just do the opposite of nazism instead, is wrong
	{A mystic entered the town and preached: “You …”. A young man then asked: “But how can that be? I live not with more care than for myself…”. The mystic replied: “You live not up to the ideal form of man. And neither does every follower of Providence live up to expectations.”. He continued: “The ideal is the mold our society should try to fit…}

